started design vignette (#233)
ropensci/vcr: man/rmdhunks/vcr-design.Rmd

## Design

This section explains `vcr`'s internal design and architecture.

> ## Where vcr comes from and why R6

Reviewer: Link to something explaining R6? https://adv-r.hadley.nz/r6.html?

Author: yes probably that

Author: aldready linking to it in the paragraph

`vcr` was "ported" from the Ruby gem (aka, library) of the same name[^1]. 
Because it was ported from Ruby, an object-oriented programming language
I thought it would be easier to use an object system in R that most
closely resemble that used in Ruby (at least in my opinion). This 
thinking lead to choosing [R6][]. The exported functions users interact
with are not R6 classes, but are rather normal R functions. However,
most of the internal code in the package uses R6. Thus, familiarity
with R6 is important for people that may want to contribute to `vcr`,
but not required at all for `vcr` users.

## Principles

### Mullet design: business up front, party in the back

As described above, `vcr` uses R6 internally, but users interact with
normal R functions. 

```r
functions == business
R6 == party
```

> The business and party could be reversed, depending on your perspective.

Reviewer: I did not understand this image right away. Add a sentence about the hairstyle?

Author: AH, ok, not a universal thing, might change that

Anyway, the point is that there's two different major sets of code 
used in `vcr`. 

### Class/function names are inherited from Ruby vcr

Since R `vcr` was ported from Ruby, we kept most of the names of 
functions/classes and variables. So if you're wondering about why 
a function, class, or variable has a particular name, its derivation 
can not be found out in this package, for the most part that is.

> ### Hooks into http clients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hooks into HTTP clients
```

Perhaps the most fundamental thing about that this package work is
how it knows what HTTP requests are being made. This stumped me for 
quite a long time. When looking at Ruby vcr, at first I thought it
must be "listening" for HTTP requests somehow. Then I found out about
[monkey patching][mp] (see also [this blog post as a good 
summary][mpblog]); that's how it's achieved in Ruby. That is, the Ruby
vcr package literally overrides certain methods in Ruby HTTP clients, 
hijacking internals of the HTTP clients. 

However, monkey patching is not allowed in R. Thus, in R we have to
somehow have "hooks" into HTTP clients in R. Fortunately, Scott is the
maintainer of one of the HTTP clients, `crul`, so was able to quickly
create a hook. Very fortunately, there was already a hook mechanism
in the `httr` package. 

> The actual hooks are not in `vcr`, but in `webmockr`. `vcr` depends on

Reviewer: a blog post about how the hooks work (that could then get integrated into webmockr docs) would be great!

Author: good idea, probably won't have time for that though

`webmockr` for hooking into HTTP clients `httr` and `crul`. 

## Internal classes

An overview of some of the more important aspects of vcr.

### Configuration

An internal object (`vcr_c`) is created when `vcr` is loaded with
the default vcr configuration options inside of an R6 class `VCRConfig` -
see <https://github.com/ropensci/vcr/blob/master/R/onLoad.R>. This
class is keeps track of default and user specified configuration options.
You can access `vcr_c` using triple namespace `:::`, though it is not
intended for general use. Whenever you make calls to `vcr_configure()`
or other configuration functions, `vcr_c` is affected.

### Cassette class

`Cassette` is an R6 class that handles internals/state for each cassette.
Each time you run `use_cassette()` this class is used. The class has quite
a few methods in it, so there's a lot going on in the class. Ideally
the class would be separated into subclasses to handle similar sets
of logic, but there's not an easy way to do that with R6. 

Of note in `Cassette` is that when called, within the `initialize()` 
call `webmockr` is used to create webmockr stubs. 

### How HTTP requests are handled

> Within `webmockr`, there's calls to the vcr class `RequestHandler`, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within `webmockr`, there are calls to the vcr class `RequestHandler`, which
```

has child classes `RequestHandlerCrul` and `RequestHandlerHttr` for 
`crul` and `httr`, respectively. These classes determine what to do with
each HTTP request. The options for each HTTP request include:

- **Ignored** You can ignore HTTP requests under certain rules using the 
configuration options `ignore_hosts` and `ignore_localhost`
- **Stubbed by vcr** This is an HTTP request for which a match is found
in the cassette defined in the `use_cassette()`/`insert_cassette()` call.
In this case the matching request/response from the cassette is returned
with no real HTTP request allowed.
- **Recordable** This is an HTTP request for which no match is found
in the cassette defined in the `use_cassette()`/`insert_cassette()` call.
In this case a real HTTP request is allowed, and the request/response is
recorded to the cassette.
- **Unhandled** This is a group of cases, all of which cause an error
to be thrown with a message trying to help the user figure out how to
fix the problem.

> If you use vcr logging you'll see these categories in your logs.

Reviewer: example of a log?

Author: probably not useful to show a log file, but can link to help docs on logging

### Serializers

Serializers handle in what format cassettes are written to files on disk.
The current options are YAML (default) and JSON. 

> An R6 class `Serializer` is the parent class for all serializer types;

Reviewer: Maybe add context on why you implemented YAML first and the problems of YAML?

Author: good idea

`YAML` and `JSON` are both R6 classes that inherit from `Serializer`. Both
`YAML` and `JSON` define just two methods: `serialize()` and `deserialize()`
for converting R structures to yaml or json, and converting yaml or json back
to R structures, respectively.

## Environments

### Logging

An internal environment (`vcr_log_env`) is used when you use logging.
At this point it only keeps track of one variable - `file` - to be able
to refer to what file is used for logging across many classes/functions
that need to write to the log file.

### A bit of housekeeping

> Another internal environment (`vcr__env`) is used to keep track of a

Reviewer: why two "_"?

Author: i dont remember :)

few items, including the current cassette in use, and the last vcr error.

### Lightswitch

Another internal environment (`light_switch`) is used to keep track of users
turning on and off `vcr`. See `?lightswitch`.

> ## Footnotes

Reviewer: given that `bookdown::bs4_book()` makes footnotes accessible on hover, and that pkgdown next version will do that as well, I think you should remove this section heading.

Author: will do
